- [[Lithium]]
	- The top four players, SQM, Albemarle, Ganfeng and Tianqi will continue to dominate [[Lithium]] supply for a few more years. The number five & six players in vertically integrated [[Lithium]] chemicals [[production]], Livent and Allkem, together equal less than half of the chemical [[production]] of the smallest “Big 4” player. Hopefully that changes soon.
	- Now that annual demand is growing at > 200K MT of LCE per year, it is easy to see why the “Big 4” needs to morph into the “Big 8” or more very soon. Spoiler alert: a “Big 8” is highly unlikely before 2030. Developing [[Lithium]] projects is much more time intensive than building battery capacity.
- # Piecing The Puzzle: Profiling Private Companies in Behavioral Health
	- We believe there is little debate on the significant TAM (over $100B), unequal access to mental care, provider shortage, significantly fragmented landscape and [[COVID]]-spurred acceleration push to the virtual channel. Yet, there is also a tremendous amount of supply (20k mental health apps today) of point solutions, highlighting the need for differentiation (we believe well-run studies, a dossier of health outcomes data and partnership with payors are instrumental to success).
	- Behavioral Health lends itself to greater telehealth penetration by offering a convenient, cost-effective, and confidential setting to deliver care. Given the ability to scale quicker with modest [[capital]] requirements, we expect further consolidation as payors demand more bundled/multiple point solution platforms.
	-