https://www.voltz.xyz/litepaper

[[IRS]] vAMM

#learn #finance #crypto 

https://curve.fi/files/stableswap-paper.pdf
[[Curve]] StableSwap by Michael Egorov

https://sig.finance/sigma_wp.pdf

Collateral for minting options may generate yield through various strategies, from **depositing UST into Anchor to running riskier and more complex farming and lending strategies**. As a tease, UST deposited in the put vaults will not only receive native token incentives and generate a yield from option premiums, but the **deposited UST will also accrue interest through Anchor.**

Sigma further improves the options space by allowing options to be **denominated in any Terra native coin** and **backed by the underlying spot CW20 asset (LUNA, ANC, mAssets, LP tokens, etc.)**, yielding a Terra-native decentralized options ecosystem for participants. With IBC and various bridges, Terra-native users can gain significant exposure to non-native assets on the Terra chain without the need for sufficient underlying spot liquidity.

Sigma supports both **American** and **European options**, with an initial focus on European options in Vaults and American options on the CLOB.

As a result, Sigma provides a limit order book where users will be able to post orders across various strike prices and expiries, vault system where users can mint/ sell options with predefined strike prices.

For example, users depositing stablecoins (UST) into cashcovered put vaults will automatically have the UST accrue interest in Anchor, a Terra-native lending protocol. The ability to stack yields gives Sigma an immediate head start in attracting depositors.

https://universefinance.gitbook.io/docs/competitors

[[Uniswap]] v3 LP manager

https://research.rabobank.com/markets/en/documents/279278_2475340_yourollover-dollar.pdf

#euro #finance 

To avoid any potential confusion, the term Eurodollar came into being long before the Euro currency, and the “euro” has nothing to do with Europe. In this context it is used in the same vein as Eurobonds, which are also not EUR denominated bonds, but rather debt issued in a different currency to the company of that issuing. For example, a Samurai bond--that is to say a bond issued in JPY by a nonJapanese issuer--is also a type of Eurobond.

A number of parallel events occurred in the late 1950s that led to the Eurodollar’s creation – and the likely suspects sound like the cast of a spy novel. The Eurodollar market began to emerge after WW2, when US Dollars held outside of the US began to increase as the US consumed more and more goods from overseas. Some also cite the role of the Marshall Plan, where the US transferred over USD12bn (USD132bn equivalent now) to Western Europe to help them rebuild and fight the appeal of Soviet communism.

With rising fears that the US might freeze the Soviet Union’s USD holdings, action was taken: in 1957, the USSR moved their USD holdings to a bank in London, creating the first Eurodollar deposit and seeding our current UScentric global financial system – by a country opposed to the US in particular and capitalism in general.

Meanwhile, the Eurodollar market spawned a widely-known financial instrument, the London Inter Bank Offer Rate, or LIBOR. Indeed, LIBOR is an offshore USD interest rate which emerged in the 1960s as those that borrowed Eurodollars needed a reference rate for larger loans that might need to be syndicated. Unlike today, however, LIBOR was an average of offered lending rates, hence the name, and was not based on actual transactions as the first tier of the LIBOR submission waterfall is today.

The results are as shown below as of end-2018: USD57 trillion, nearly three times the size of the US economy before it was hit by the COVID-19 virus.

It also shows its vast power in that this is an equally large structural global demand for USD. Every import, bond, loan, credit guarantee, or derivate needs to be settled in USD.

The world is also beholden to US monetary policy cycles rather than local ones: higher US rates and/or a stronger USD are ruinous for countries that have few direct economic or financial links with the US. Yet the US Federal Reserve generally shows very little interest in global economic conditions – though that is starting to change, as we will show shortly.

A second problem is that the flow of USD from the US to the rest of the world needs to be sufficient to meet the inbuilt demand for trade and other transactions.

That means that either the US must run large capital account deficits, lending to the rest of the world; or large current account deficits, spending instead.

Indeed, if one understands the structure of the Eurodollar system one can see that it faces the Triffin Paradox. This was an argument first made by Robert Triffin in 1959 when he correctly predicted that any country forced to adopt the role of global reserve currency would also be forced to run ever-larger currency outflows to fuel foreign appetite – eventually leading to the breakdown of the system as the cost became too much to bear.

Indeed, while the Eurodollar market size has remained relatively constant in recent years, largely as banks have been slow to expand their balance sheets, the level of global USD FX reserves has risen from USD1.9 trillion to over USD6.5 trillion. As such, the ratio of structural global USD demand to that of USD supply has actually declined from near 22 during the global financial crisis to around 9.

Second, most developed countries apart from Switzerland have opted to hold almost no USD reserves at all. Their approach is that they are also reserve currencies, long-standing US allies, and so assume the Fed will always be willing to treat them as such with swap lines when needed.

Third, most developing countries still do not hold enough USD for periods of Eurodollar liquidity stress, despite the painful lessons learned in 1997-98 and 2008-09. The only exception is Saudi Arabia, whose currency is pegged to the USD, although Taiwan, and Russia hold USD close to what would be required in an emergency.

https://us-ms.gr-cdn.com/getresponse-y9cii/documents/92be0d0f-8a2f-4ec8-8557-a9e77fce974e.pdf

* Von Restorff Effect | Things that stand out are more memorable
* Sensory Adaptation | People ignore the things they get exposed to repeatedly
* Endowment Effect | Users value something more if they feel it belongs to them
* Authority Bias | People tend to have an irrational trust in the opinions of authorities
* The Zeigarnik Effect | People remember incomplete tasks better than completed ones
* Risk Compensation Theory | People adjust their behavior based on perceived risk
* Humor Effect | People remember humorous information better
* Loss Aversion | People prefer to avoid losses more than earning the same profits
* Country of Origin Effect | People's perceptions are influenced by a product’s country of origin labeling
* Picture Superiority Effect | One picture is worth a thousand words

> "People don't buy products - They buy emotions"
> "Over 95% of our purchasing decisions are emotional." 
> - Harvard Business School

https://twitter.com/telonicid/status/1496195978793209857?s=21

5/ The TLDR is that buying a long call and delta hedging it will generate profits for the holder whenever the option moves in either direction - up or down.
6/ The reason is quite simple: if option delta is 0.5, and delta moves to 0.52 on a $1 spot increase due to gamma, then the option will go up in price by the average delta times spot move, which is $0.51.
7/ Same thing on a down move - the option will only lose $0.49 if delta goes down to 0.48. If you are delta neutral, then in each of these scenarios your p/l is +$0.01, since hedge's delta is constant and it will lose $0.5 or win $0.5.
9/ Since these profits are direction-neutral, the long holder must pay for the privilege of having such a profit-generating strategy. The cost they pay is the option time value, which is roughly equal to the expected gamma profits.
10/ The premium decays daily by the amount known as theta, since the # of times these gamma profits can be collected decreases as maturity approaches.
11/ This also explains why volatility is an input to option's price - if spot moves up and down a lot, the long option holder will earn more money from gamma. If future realized vol is close to option implied vol, then such strategy will have net zero p/l.
15/ If the spot price moved up $100, the option gives you an "acceleration" of the profit, as opposed to earning only $50 on a 50-delta option, the fact that delta moved to say 80 means that option p/l will be based on the average delta ($65). The extra $15 is the gamma p/l
16/ If the spot moved down instead, your loss would instead be cushioned. Instead of losing $50, your position would likely only lose $35.
17/ In both cases the extra p/l you get is $15, even though you are not delta hedged. This is what you really buy as an options buyer - you buy the privilege of extra profits in good times, and a cushion against losses in the bad times.
18/ Over the 3 days, you'd pay some theta on our position, which could be below/above the $15 of your gamma gain. Typically, your gamma gain will be higher than theta paid if the realized vol over the 3 days was noticeably above the implied vol you bought the option at.
21/ The gamma profits can be computed as 0.5 * gamma * Spot^2 * (% move)^2, e.g. now a 2700 Mar 4 call would yield $17.5 gamma profit on a 5% move, and would cost $7.7 / day in theta. So if you expect this jump to happen in the next 1-2 days, this can be a good deal.
30/ So say you enter into a 0.5 spot position, and increase it to 0.52 if spot moves up $1 to "imitate" gamma. The difference here is that the p/l on the up move will still be $0.50, unlike option's $0.51 p/l
32/ If you were to buy more spot as spot goes up, you'll only enjoy the benefits of your increased position if spot keeps going up. With options, you "front run" this process and harvest the benefits in advance
33/ So, in a way, the premium you pay for an option gives you the front-running privilege of increasing your delta exposure right before the large spot move occurs.

