- [[tokenomics]] [[token engineering]] Module 2
	- The first step in the token engineering process is the discovery phase.
	- Seven steps for translating the client's vision into a workable form:
		- Defining the System Goals
			- Each system has a **design objective**, a *raison d’etre* that drives its creation. All subsequent phases of our work will be focused on achieving this objective, so we need to be very sure that we know what we are aiming for.
			- After we have identified the overall objective, we can then define specific system goals. These goals help make our objective more concrete and measurable. Often, there will be several different system goals, some of which are in tension with each other, and we will not be able to optimize all of these goals simultaneously.
			- It helps to locate these goals in various categories (like e.g. technical, economic, etc.) to understand the trade-offs between them. Doing so will lead to recommendations and guide decision makers through the process. Discussing the system at these levels also allow us to look for parallels that exist in other projects or domains, allowing us to borrow these ideas for our projects.
			- Before we can build the technical parts of the system, we need to have a clear mental model of how the component parts interact.
			- Determining the ==**design objective**== for a system is a crucial first step. In the context of cryptoeconomic systems, the objective is to build an infrastructure for economic interactions between agents so that the system will achieve the objectives of all participants over the system’s full life cycle.
			- Generally speaking this objective has to guide the project in the right direction and make it aligned with the system’s mission or purpose.
			- After defining the overall objective, we define **==system goals==**.
			- Typically, the system goals are more concrete than the overall objective, which can be somewhat abstract. Often, there will be several different system goals, and it may not be possible to simultaneously fulfill them all.
			- Since Cryptoeconomic systems are Cyberphysical Systems - connecting humans and technology - there are two natural categories of goals: technical and economic.
			  collapsed:: true
				- **Technical goals** have to do with an ecosystem’s functionality, interoperability, and technical infrastructure. A cryptoeconomic system will have limitations based on both hardware or software components, including things like computing precision in different coding languages, as well as the physical restrictions of memory on various storage devices. Here the main target is to guarantee that the technical infrastructure of the system can support the mission over the full life cycle of its components. Sometimes these issues will be of a very technical nature, requiring a high degree of intensive troubleshooting.
				- **Example of a technical restriction: **For example, working on Ethereum, we have limited storage space for single variables. In Ethereum, numbers can be stored as uint256, that is, positive integer numbers up to 2256−1. If the system we are building overshoots this limit, it can cause serious problems. Engineering will work to avoid or mitigate this issue.
				- **Economic goals** are related to the financial aspects of the system. A system has to be affordable in its operation compared to market alternatives (cf. costs of cash payments vs digital transactions),. The system it has to be economically appealing to all its participants.
				- First, it is a good idea to look at what economic incentives and foundations will attract what participants. As the same parameters and its properties will affect different participants differently, a balance has to be found for where the accumulated utility is the highest (which imposes the questions: *what is aggregated utility and who gets to decide this?* This is related to the idea of Economic theory on social choice).
				- For instance, in an automated market maker, we would want to have a stable trading fee which will engage liquidity providers while not scaring off traders. Liquidity providers might even see lower trading fees as an advantage, since a larger trading volume will generate more returns.
				- Second, the **business economics** of the system need to be calculated in order to see how much it costs to operate the system. Each interaction on the blockchain incurs gas fees, since calculations have to be performed and smart contracts have to be executed.
			- ==Stability== is also a desired economic goal in many cases. If the system reacts too strongly to changing market conditions and shocks, it may become unusable. For the system to survive economically, it is crucial that there are control policies that can bring it back to favorable conditions.
			- When we set goals, we also need to think about how we will know if those goals are met. It is common to define ==Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)==, which are numerical variables whose measurements should tightly track into the system being designed.
			- **How Token Engineers determine the system's goals. **
				- Understanding **Stakeholders**: We communicate with stakeholders to get a clear picture of their view of the system.
				  collapsed:: true
					- Talk to Stakeholders
					- Ask Them Questions
					  collapsed:: true
						- **Open Questions**: have no predefined answers. e.g. "How important is speed to your system?"
						- **Closed Questions**: have limited options. e.g. "How many types of tokens should be allowed in a pool?"
					- Another useful strategy is to find metaphors for the different modules and parts of the ecosystem. For instance, we might think of the system as a machine, culture, organism, or political system.
					- It can be helpful to compare an Automated Market Maker to a traditional money exchange, a metals market, or a balance scale.
					- Another common step is to evaluate the market and competitors - who they are and what they do. One common framework is known as *SWOT*
					- Another common framework for this type of analysis is *Porter's Five Forces*, which looks at: 
					  collapsed:: true
						- the threat of new entrants
						- the bargaining power of buyers
						- the threat of substitutes
						- the bargaining power of suppliers
						- the rivalry among existing competitors.
				- Understanding the **System**: We understand the system when we can communicate it in concrete "real-world" terms.
				- Understanding the **Market**: We use analytical tools (e.g. SWOT, Five Forces) to get a feel for the market landscape.
			-
		- Defining the System Requirements
		- Stakeholder Definition and Analysis
		- Definition of Interactions and Value Transfers
		- Metrics Definition and Analysis
		- Causal Relationships and Systems Thinking
		- Identification of Stocks and Flows in the System