- [[heg]]
	- http://www.advancedots.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/HEG.pdf
		- The [[brain]] is very plastic and has been shown to change as required to
		  enhance its ability to deal with a challenge.
		- [[brain]] [[exercise]] is a basic [[brain]] repair and growth promoting technique.
		  Education level increases age of AD onset. Physical [[exercise]] increases [[brain]] angiogenesis. [[brain]] [[exercise]] increases synaptogenesis and angiogenesis. Memory increases correlate with synaptic number increase. [[brain]] nuclei volume has been shown to increase with [[brain]] use.
		- [[brain]] activity can be measured non-invasively by cerebral tissue oxygenation and by [[brain]] [[blood]] temperature. fMRI measures the magnetic moment of deoxygenated hemoglobin and is an accepted scientific standard of [[brain]] activity. [[blood]] temperature has been shown to correlate highly with [[brain]] metabolism. The Fick method of measuring energy use of the [[brain]], the gold standard, depends on oxygen depletion in exiting venous [[blood]] vs. newly entering arterial oxygenated [[blood]].
		- [[brain]] activity is controlled voluntarily. Every voluntary body action or thought is consciously controlled. Body action/thought can be initiated by intent. [[blood]] flow increases in affected [[brain]] nuclei to [[supply]] the energy that fuels the [[brain]] for [[life]] support, actions and thought.
		- [[brain]] tissue oxygenation is easily measured by an external light operated spectrophotometer. [[brain]] [[blood]] temperature, affected by [[brain]] metabolism, can also be used to [[train]] [[brain]] improvement. It is measurable with an [[infrared]] radiation sensitive thermometer.
		- Oxygen increase measurements with an external [[infrared]] spectrometer, voluntarily raised to maximum, routinely exceed 10% and have been shown to increase 100%.
		- Published studies have shown clinical improvements in [[brain]] function resulting from repeated [[brain]] [[exercise]] guided by temperature or oxygenation measurements.
		- Both forms of [[heg]] have similar side [[effect]] profiles. Although the exact mechanism of these side effects remains unknown, most are consistent with the symptoms that would be expected from fatigue of the [[prefrontal]] cortex
			- **Headache**: This is an interesting phenomenon because although it is described
			  as a “headache,” [[People]] often report that there is no real pain. The sensation is
			  that of frontal throbbing rather than actual pain. It is likely that this represents
			  a perception of a sensation with which the person is unfamiliar, and is due to
			  increased cerebral [[blood]] flow to the [[prefrontal]] cortex. The sensation usually dissipates within one minute of stopping the session. This may not be due to frontal
			  fatigue as much as the presence of an unfamiliar sensation
			- Fatigue of the [[prefrontal]] cortex: If someone is trained for too long or too intensively, especially during the first session, that person may [[experience]] a general loss of self-regulation for the balance of that day. The symptoms are usually an exaggeration of the person’s typical symptoms. Support for the [[hypothesis]] of frontal fatigue comes from the fact that the following day, after a night’s sleep, the symptoms are dramatically reduced.
			- **Difficulty initiating and maintaining sleep:** It is unclear if this represents excessive arousal or failure of inhibition. Typically the person leaves with a high level of mental alertness but has difficulty sleeping that evening. This is especially true if the first session takes place late in the day. The effect is dimished after the first few sessions. The solution is to conduct the first few sessions in the morning if at all possible.
	- https://therationalbiohacker.net/2019/01/16/hemoencephalography-brain-training-review-by-the-rational-biohacker/
		- Overtraining can have some negative side-affects these include headaches and anxiety. Make sure you don’t overtrain and over [[stress]] the [[brain]] as I said before start low with 3 minutes per site and then move up to 5 minutes per site every other day after around a month’s [[training]].  Far too many [[People]] overtrain when it comes to [[heg]] and it’s just not worth it.
		-