## What is a [[first principle]]?

A [[first principle]] is a basic assumption that cannot be deduced from any other assumption. In [[Mathematics]], these are called axioms.

1. Why you should [[write]]?

In any field, the most successful people double as writers. Chefs write recipes, comedians write jokes, and entrepreneurs write business plans. The examples are endless. 

>Jeff Bezos:
“People who [[write]] a lot, also listen a lot. They also change their [[mind]] a lot. Not necessarily with new data, but sometimes re-analyzing the same data. They also work hard to disconfirm fundamental biases.”

 The best way to [[learn]] faster is to have a stake in the outcome. [[Risk]] awakens our learning muscles like a splash of cold water. If you want to learn to cook invite friends over for dinner; if you want to learn about stocks, [[invest]] in the stock market; and if you want to learn about an [[idea]], publish an [[article]] about it.

Use stories to illuminate what you’re trying to say. [[Write]] in short sentences. Make one point per sentence. [[Communicate]] with a smooth and natural tone, as if you’re talking to a friend at a bar. If you have writer’s block, you don’t have enough [[notes]], so rather than starting with a blank page, start with an abundance of notes. There you go. That’s just about all you need to start writing well.

Don’t just [[write]] for yourself. [[Share]] your ideas by publishing them online. Writing in [[public]] is like inviting guests to your house for dinner. You have to clean and double [[check]] everything. Just like when you cook a meal for your guests, you try harder when others are watching and your [[reputation]] is at stake.

[[Demand]] for [[quality]] writing far exceeds the [[supply]] of it. People are bombarded with worthless [[ideas]] and the distractions of the news. They're tired of clickbait articles, exaggerated political dramas, and attention-burning articles. [[People]] are starving for creators who speak with depth and nuance. That’s why everybody reads Wait But Why and Joe Rogan stole the culture.

2. HOW I CHOOSE WHAT TO READ

[[Time]] is scarce, so you can’t [[read]] everything. You have to make [[tradeoffs]]. As you [[choose]] what to [[read]], you walk a [[balance]] between [[thinking]] differently and [[knowing]] more than others.  

